Caravan is a server-side scripting language, like Microsoft ASP, JSP, PHP etc
Caravan scripts are executed on the server
You need a different mind set to understand Caravan and its features
Caravan itself is written in C++, making it possible to encapsulate the major technologies, which are needed for building advanced applications. It has been built completely from scratch using a totally new and unique approach.
It is possible to build almost any type of application by using a combination of the available objects. What is most unique to Caravan is that there are just a few object types that are required to do this.
There is a common source for all platforms, so all versions are released simultaneously and there are no platform specific features or anomalies.

Caravan has In Built	Description
Application Server	with Scripting language embedded in HTML
Database	RDBMS, Search Engine, Multi Dimensional, Circular. Access the database via any browser. No external database needed
Communication Server	Emailing, FTP, Messaging, Serial Input/ Output, HTTP, TCP/IP & XML, SOAP compliant
Cross platform	Develop-once-deploy-on-multiple-platforms without change in Source Code or Database. Works on - Linux, All Windows (NT, 2000, XP, 2003 and above), IBM OS/2 Warp, Any flavor of UNIX.
Remote Administration (via a browser)	Maintain databases (create/modify/delete databases, tables, fields), source code, create groups and users
Web Server	No need for Apache, IIS  or any other web server


Caravan platform is an “.exe”

Extremely Tiny footprint: Platform < 1 MB size

To access caravan database you need only a browser.

1 Tier architecture

Setting up the development environment on your or developers machine in less than a minute!

You can use any editor to develop Caravan based applications.

You can Encrypt your source code before deploying (extension .cch). Encryption is done using a separate software >> encode.exe.

Caravan is free to download and use for individual purpose. But if deployed for commercial use then licensing charges are applicable
What is a Caravan File?
Caravan files can contain text, HTML tags and scripts

Caravan files are returned to the browser as plain HTML 

Normal Caravan files have a file extension of ".html". But caravan files can have any extension. All Caravan source code files are kept in a user defined folder e.g templates. Files in this folder can have any extension, other than .html
Why Caravan
Caravan runs on different platforms (Windows, Linux, Unix, etc.)
